2 View Messages
===============

# summary

本节讨论了如何查看邮件,查看mine信息,查看邮件的元数据信息,如何回复邮件等

# 2.1 Reading Basic

To read messages in the order of their arrival, type ‘SPC’ to display them. That’s it. It’s easy, isn’t it?

Yet this might not be comprehensive, so the basic commands for page processing are listed as follows:

‘SPC’
Read through messages. That is, display a message, scroll it, and move-then-display another message. refer to Summary mode to know which direction the cursor moves.

‘C-uSPC’
Redisplay the message from its header.

‘DEL’
Back-scroll this message. Unnecessary header fields are hidden over the window. Type ‘DEL’ to see them when a message is displayed.

‘RET’
Make this message scroll up one line.

‘M-RET’
‘-’
Make this message scroll down one line.

‘C-n’
Go to the next line.

‘C-p’
Go to the previous line.

‘n’
Move down then display. Targets include parts, messages marked with ‘*’, and non-marked messages.
在`message mode` 中，这个非常好用，就是在这个窗口不停地显示邮件箱中的邮件。

‘C-un’
Move down then display. Targets include messages marked with ‘*’, and non-marked messages.

‘p’
Move up then display. Targets include parts, messages marked with ‘*’, and non-marked messages.

‘C-up’
Move up then display. Targets include messages marked with ‘*’, and non-marked messages.

‘j’
Jump to a line according to the line number which you input.
在`Summay mode`中，利用这个命令，迅速定位到这个邮件，非常人性化

‘C-uj’
Jump to a message according to the message number which you input.


# 2.2 Displaying MIME


显示一些`MIME`

It’s not difficult to read a multipart message. As usual, just type ‘SPC’.

A multipart message is marked with ‘M’ on the left side of date as follows:


    * 03/12 Hidenori Ohta  This weekend              |Let's go to StoneMagic
    M 03/14 Momo-chan      The pictures of Noto      |Attached are the pictu
    03/15 Neat Sumikawa  Re: wine                  |OK. I vote for Wednesd


When you type ‘SPC’ on the message marked with ‘M’, its header is displayed in Message mode. Then its multipart structure is displayed in Summary mode as follows:


# 2.3 Controlling MIME analysis

There are several variables for controlling message analysis.

‘mew-file-max-size’
The size limit of messages to be analyzed. If the size of a message is less than or equal to this value, it is analyzed and displayed. Otherwise, the raw message is displayed without analysis. The default value is 10000 bytes.

‘mew-header-max-length’
The length limit of header to be analyzed. If the length of a header is less than or equal to this value, it is analyzed and displayed. Otherwise, the message is displayed as fragmentarily since the analysis is stopped. The default value is 100 lines.

‘mew-decode-broken’
Whether Mew be liberal or conservative to invalid messages. If the value is ‘t’, the setting is liberal. If the value is ‘nil’, the setting is for conservative. If conservative and invalid portions are found, they are reported in the X-Mew: field. The default value is ‘t’.

‘mew-use-text-body’
Whether or not the text part of a body is displayed with its header. If the value is ‘t’, both the body which is a single part text and the first text part in a multipart body are displayed with its header. If the value is ‘nil’, they are displayed as a single part in a multipart. The default value is ‘t’.

‘mew-use-alternative’
How to treat Multipart/Alternative. Messages containing Multipart/Alternative are marked with ‘-’. If the value is ‘t’, one part is displayed according to the preference defined in ‘mew-mime-multipart-alternative-list’. If the value is ‘nil’, it is displayed as a multipart. The default value is ‘t’.

‘mew-use-text/html’
How to treat Text/Html. If ‘nil’, HTML is displayed as is (without parsing). Otherwise, HTML is parsed and displayed. The default value is ‘nil’.

‘mew-use-text/xml’
How to treat Text/Xml. If ‘nil’, XML is displayed as is (without parsing). Otherwise, XML is parsed and displayed. The default value is ‘t’.

The basic command relating to the variables above is ‘.’. The command acts as follows:

1) If this command executed on a message, the cache of the message is removed and the message is analyzed then displayed.

1a) If the size of the current message exceeds ‘mew-file-max-size’, MIME analysis is skipped then the beginning of the raw message is displayed. In this situation, this command analyzes the current message without the limitation then displays it.

1b) If the length of a header exceeds ‘mew-header-max-length’, a broken message is displayed. In this situation, this command analyzes the current message without the limitation then displays it.

1c) If the current message is displayed by ‘:’, the multipart structure is displayed different from the normal display. In this situation, this command gets the multipart structure back to the normal display.

1d) If ‘mew-use-text/html’ is ‘nil’, its HTML body is displayed as is. In this situation, this command analyzes the HTML body and displays it.

2) If this command is called on a part, the part is displayed again.

2a) If ’mew-use-text/html’ is ‘nil’, its HTML part is displayed as is. In this situation, this command analyzes the HTML part and displays it.

In addition to ‘.’, the following commands are prepared:

‘.’
Analyze the message and re-display it.

‘C-u.’
Analyze the message with ‘mew-decode-broken’ reversed (see Invalid messages).

‘:’
The same as ‘.’ with ‘mew-use-alternative’ and ‘mew-use-text-body’ reversed.

‘C-u:’
The same as ‘C-u.’ with ‘mew-use-alternative’ and ‘mew-use-text-body’ reversed.

‘,’
Insert a message or a part into Message mode in raw format.

‘C-cTAB’
Open an entire message as a file in read-only mode.

‘C-uC-cTAB’
Open an entire message as a file.

# 2.5 Getting messages

To copy arrived messages to your mailbox to +inbox and list up a list of the messages, use ‘i’. The mailbox is determined according to ‘mew-mailbox-type’. (When you type ‘M-x mew’ and if ‘mew-proto’ is ‘+’, messages are also copied according to ‘mew-mailbox-type’.) Here are summary of its values.
`mew-mailbox-type`定义了本地存储的形式，默认值是`pop`

‘'mbox’
A local mailbox. "incm" is used to copy messages for the local mailbox by default. To know how to configure it, see Configuration.

‘'pop’
A POP server. To use POP as it is. (This is a default value.)

‘'imap’
An IMAP server. This is not recommended.


如何来更新邮箱呢，直接按一下`s`,它就会有新的提示，

To flush a list of messages in a local folder and display them again, use ‘s’.

To retrieve messages or flush-then-retrieve messages again in a remote folder, type ‘s’. It is recommended to use ‘s’, not ‘i’, for IMAP and NetNews.

If you use ‘s’, it asks you a range. Here are a summary of important ranges for Mew.

‘update’
From "the last message in the Summary mode + 1" to "the last message in the corresponding folder". That is, the gap between the Summary mode and the existing folder

‘all’
All messages in the folder. When Summary mode in a local folder becomes inconsistent, use this range to flush the list. For a remote folder, this range results in retrieval of all messages again.

‘sync’
Deleting cache messages whose originals were removed in the server side. Valid for remote folders only.

The default range both for +draft, +queue, and +postq is ‘all’. For other folders, the default is ‘update’. So, just type ‘RET’ after ‘s’ to get the up-to-date list of the current folder except +draft, +queue, and +postq.

Although they are not especially important in Mew, you can specify the following ranges:

‘<num1>-<num2>’
From <num1> to <num2>. Valid for local folders only.

‘<num1>-’
From <num1> to the last. Valid for local folders only.

‘-<num2>’
From the first to <num2>. Valid for local folders only.

‘last:<num>’
Last <num> messages.


在远程机器上时，还可以直看头信息，用于邮件的查收。
If you execute ‘s’ with ‘C-u’ on a remote folder, you can toggle "copying a header only" and "copying both a header and a body". This action can be defined by ‘mew-pop-header-only’, ‘mew-imap-header-only’, and ‘mew-nntp-header-only’ for POP, IMAP, and NNTP, respectively. The default values of these are ‘nil’, that is, "copying both a header and a body".

Messages that are of large size may be truncated. This kind of message is marked with ‘T’. To retrieve the rest of this kind of message, type ‘I’ on the message.

Suppose that there is a message marked with ‘T’ in $inbox. If you type ‘I’ on it, you can retrieve the entire message.

Here is a summary of the commands concerned with message retrieval:

‘i’
In a local folder, fetch arrived messages, store them to the +inbox folder and create a list. If ‘mew-auto-flush-queue’ is ‘t’, send messages in +queue. Please refer to Sending a message for more information. In a remote folder, visit to its inbox folder and execute ‘s’ + ‘update’.

‘C-ui’
Perform ‘i’ with ‘mew-auto-flush-queue’ reversed.

‘I’
Retrieve the rest of a truncated(‘T’) message.

If you use this command in a local folder, a method to retrieve the message is determined by the "case" and ‘mew-mailbox-type’. If ‘mew-pop-delete’/‘mew-imap-delete’ is ‘t’, delete the message from the mailbox.

If you use this command in a remote folder, a "case" and protocol is determined by the folder. The message in the server side is always retained.

‘C-uI’
Perform ‘I’ with ‘mew-pop-delete’ or ‘mew-imap-delete’ reversed.

‘s’
List up messages in Summary mode or flush them.

‘C-us’
On a remote folder, list up messages in Summary mode by toggling "copying a header only" and "copying both a header and a body".

‘lc’
Copy a cached message in a remote folder to a local folder.


# 2.7 Write, answer, and forward

Please use the following commands for writing, replying, and forwarding messages.

‘w’
Write a message. A new draft is prepared in Draft mode. Please refer to Composing messages.

写一封邮件

‘C-uw’
Write a message. A new draft is prepared in Draft mode. The From: address of the current message is copied to the To: field in the draft.
给当前的发件人写一封邮件

‘W’
Send a message by modifying a part of the header of another message. Please refer to Re-sending messages.
W 功能类似于转发

‘a’
Answer to this message. A new draft is prepared in Draft mode. Mew automatically inserts the content of the fields To: and Cc:. Please refer to Replying to a message and deciding recipients.
回复邮件

‘C-ua’
Answer to this message only to the sender.
只回复给发件人

‘A’
Answer to this message. A new draft is prepared in Draft mode. Mew automatically inserts the content of the fields To: and Cc: and cites the body. Please refer to Replying to a message and deciding recipients.

‘C-uA’
Answer to this message only to the sender with citation.

‘f’
Forward this message to a third person. A new draft is prepared in Draft mode and this message is automatically attached. Please refer to Forwarding messages.

‘F’
Forward messages marked with ‘*’ to a third person. A new draft is prepared in Draft mode and this message is automatically attached. For more information, refer to Target ‘*’. Please refer to Forwarding messages.

If an error message returns, please try again with the following commands.

‘E’
Edit this message again to retry sending. Or edit this RFC822 part typically included in a MIME-encapsulated error message.

In +draft, the message is just edited.
In +queue or +postq, the message is moved to +draft and is edited.
Otherwise, the message is copied to +draft and is edited.
For +draft, +queue, and +postq, the "case" revives.

For the other folders, if ‘mew-case-guess-when-prepared’ is ‘t’, each field of the original header is replaced according to a guessed "case". For more information, see Changing receiving/sending behavior.

‘C-uE’
The same as ‘E’. But, when used for other folders than +draft, +queue, and +postq, the original header is retained even if ‘mew-case-guess-when-prepared’ is ‘t’.


# 2.8 Useful features

Mew provides you with the following useful commands in Summary mode:

‘v’
Toggle "Summary mode only" and "Summary & Message mode". If you choose "Summary mode only", you can quickly put the ‘D’ mark since the next message is not displayed.

‘_’
Toggle normal lines, wrapped lines and long lines.

‘zv’
If ‘mew-use-header-veil’ is non-nil, field lines of To: and Cc: over ‘mew-header-veil-count’ are covered with invisible veils. This commands toggles visibility of these lines. ‘mew-use-header-veil’ and ‘mew-header-veil-count’ are default to ‘t’ and 4, respectively.

‘M-l’
Make the current line the center of the Summary mode.

‘C-cC-s’
Incremental search forward in Message mode.

‘C-cC-r’
Incremental search backward in Message mode.

‘y’
Save this message or this part into the file whose name is specified by you.

‘b’
Save the buffer of Message mode as is into the file whose name is specified by you.

‘C-uy’
Save this message or this part into the file whose name is specified by you, specifying coding-system for text.

‘#’
Print the content of Message mode according to ‘mew-print-function’.

‘C-u#’
Print the content of Message mode with a specified printer name.

‘|’
Send the content of Message buffer to a command via pipe.

‘C-u|’
Send the body of Message buffer (excluding its header) to a command via pipe.

‘\’
Executing an external command specifying this message as an argument.

‘B’
De-capsulate embedded messages in MIME format.

‘C-uB’
Decompose embedded files in this message.

‘C-cC-a’
Register the information on the current message to Addrbook (see section Address Book).
在`Message mode`下,按上`C-cC-a`就会有添加到地址薄中的功能,进入地址薄,进入一系列编辑,然后用`C-cC-c`进行保存.

‘C-cC-v’
Select PGP version (See section Visualizing cipher or signature).

‘C-cC-z’
Let PGP decrypt and/or verify old fashioned PGP messages (see section Visualizing cipher or signature).

‘C’
Change the value of the "case". For more information, please refer to Changing receiving/sending behavior.

‘=’
Display the folder name of this message and the message number. If this is a cache message, both the unique id and the size are also shown. The full path to the message is set to the cut buffer of your window manager.

‘;’
Parse the Received: fields and display them in Message mode.

‘Rd’
Delete this folder.

‘Rr’
Rename this folder.
