3 Composing messages
====================


## This section explains how to compose a message.

Methods to enter Draft mode to write a new message are given below.

Type ‘M-x mew-send’.
Type ‘C-xm’ if ‘mail-user-agent’ is configured.
Press ‘w’ in Summary mode.
Then a buffer like the following is prepared.

```
To: 
Subject: 
From: leozhang@augmentum.com.cn <leozhang@augmentum.com.cn@augmentum.com.cn>
Fcc: +outbox
X-Mailer: Mew version 6.6 on Emacs 24.3 / Mule 6.0 (HANACHIRUSATO)
----
```

We call this "Draft mode". In Draft mode, we call the region above "—-" the header, and the region below "—-" the body.

Also, replying a message (‘a’ or ‘A’) and/or forwarding messages (‘f’ or ‘F’) lead you to Draft mode from Summary mode.

Drafts are temporarily stored in the +draft folder. You can write multiple messages simultaneously.

For the method of deleting a prepared draft, please refer to Give me a break.

Now let’s see how to use Draft mode.


## 3.10 Composing multipart

Now let’s see how to create multipart messages.

When you are writing a message in +draft/1 and type ‘C-cC-a’, the following lines are inserted at the bottom of the draft.

```
To:
Subject: Hello Bamboo!
From:
Fcc: +outbox
X-Mailer: Mew version 6.6 on Emacs 24.3 / Mule 6.0 (HANACHIRUSATO)
----

Hello

------------------------------ attachments ------------------------------
      Multipart/Mixed                                           1/          
     1  Text/Plain(guess)                                         *Cover.txt 
     2                                                            .          
--------0-1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9----------------------------------------------
```

Here we designate three regions as follows:

- the region above "—-" ‘header’

- the region from "—-" to "attachments" ‘body’

- the region below "attachments" ‘attachments’


In Draft mode, the key bindings differ according to the region.

To ‘TAB’, for instance, the following functions are assigned:

header
Completions.

body
Insert TAB.

attachments
Do nothing.

To ‘c’, functions are assigned as follows:

header
Insert c.

body
Insert c.

attachments
Copy a file.

The following is a summary of commands in the attachments region.


`C-p` Go to the previous file in the current directory.

`C-n` Go to the next file in the current directory.

`C-f` Go to the first subdirectory.

`C-b` Go to the parent directory.

`c` Copy a file (possibly via networks) on ".". To copy a remote file, use the "/[user@]hostname:/filepath" syntax.

`l` Link a file with a symbolic link on ".". If you want to edit the attached file, you should ‘c’ instead of ‘l’ so that you do not edit the original file.

`d` Delete this file or this directory.

`m` Create a subdirectory (i.e. multipart) on ".".

`f` Open this file into a buffer.

`F` Open a new file into a buffer on ".".

`y` Link the message which is displayed in Message mode on ".".

`e` Input external-body on ".".

`a` Sampling voice and insert as audio file on ".".

`p` Extract the PGP key for the specified user on ".".

`D` Input a description (Content-Description:).

`T` Change the data type (Content-Type:).

`t` Toggle text and binary for the data type.

`I` Specify input coding-system for a Text/* object.

`C` Specify output coding-system for a Text/* object.

`p` Specify a file name (Content-Disposition:) to save this part in the receiver side. If you type just ‘RET’ without any string, its value is cleared. Then the file name in the sender side is displayed with ‘*’.

In attachments, data types are guessed by suffix. The currently supported suffixes are as follows:



