1 Read me first
===============

# Summary

本节讨论了mew 的新特性, 模式简介, 文件夹的命名规则,基本的配置方法

# The features of Mew 6.6 are as follows:

- You can easily display a very complicated structured message. What you should do to view messages is just type ‘SPC’.
- If you know how to do file operations such as copy, you can compose a very complicated message without any difficulty.
- You can start to read messages before they are all fully listed.
- Since Mew preserves lists of messages in Summary mode, when you move messages to a new folder, they will automatically be listed incrementally.
- Mew neatly suggests default folders for refiling. Those who receive many messages cannot live without this feature.
- In Draft mode, you can complete field names, e-mail addresses, receiver’s names, domain names, and folder names.
- You can easily search messages with keywords etc.
- Mew automatically decodes messages encrypted with PGP or S/MIME. It also automatically verifies signed messages.
- You can easily encrypt or sign a message with PGP or S/MIME.
- It takes a bit of time to analyze MIME syntax or to verify a PGP or S/MIME signature. While the user is reading a message, Mew processes the next message so that the next message can be displayed faster. Analyzed messages are cached briefly.
- You can view multiple folders simultaneously.
- Selection/Thread, a mechanism to display the flow of messages, is supported. You can make Selection from messages matched to a keyword and make Thread from the Selection.
- When you input a folder name, you can search it with a substring of the name.
[ << ]	[ < ]	[ Up ]	[ > ]	[ >> ]                                  [Top]	[Contents]	[Index]	[ ? ]

# Supported Emacs versions

Please use Emacs 22.3 or later. Mew doesn’t support earlier versions nor XEmacs.


# 1.3 Modes
共有以下七种模式

Mew has the following seven modes:

概览模式
‘Summary mode’
A mode to list and select messages.

虚拟模拟
‘Virtual mode’
A mode to list messages selected with a specific condition from one or more folders. This is similar to Summary mode. This mode is categorized to Selection or Thread.

信息模式
‘Message mode’
A mode to display the content of a message.

草稿模式
‘Draft mode’
A mode to prepare a message to be sent, answered, and forwarded.

头模式
‘Header mode’
A mode to edit the header of a message and to send it.

编辑模式
‘Edit mode’
A mode to edit a message to generate another new message.

地址栏模式
‘Addrbook mode’
A mode to register an entry to the address book (Addrbook).


# 1.4 Folder convention


With Mew’s terminology, a place where messages are deliver is called `mailbox`. There are three kinds of mailbox: local, POP server, IMAP server, and NNTP server.

A box which contains messages used by Mew is called "folder". The name of a folder is in the format that "proto" is followed by a string, where "proto" is one sign letter. For example, the proto of "+inbox" is "+".

Mew’s folders are categorized to two types: "local folder" and "remote folder".

A local folder is a folder which is *original* and is created the computer on which Mew is running. Also, messages stored in the folder are *original*. (So, if you remove them, you cannot revive them.)

本地有哪些`folder`,本地的文件夹都有`+`
The proto of a local folder is "+". We summarize special local folders as follows:

‘+inbox’
The first local folder to store messages which you fetch from your local mailbox or your POP server. To refile messages, what you do is to move the messages from "+inbox" to other folders.

‘+draft’
A local folder where messages, which you have not completed yet, are stored.

‘+queue’
A local folder where e-mail messages to be sent are stored. The messages in "+queue" will be eventually sent by SMTP.

‘+postq’
A local folder where NetNews message to be sent are stored. The messages in "+postq" will be eventually sent by NNTP.

A remote folder is a COPY whose original is on a server side. A message in a remote folder is a cache which is copied from the server.

Here are a list of available proto of remote folders:

‘%’
Folders on an IMAP servers. Example: "%inbox"

‘$’
The folder on a POP server. Example: "$inbox" (Since there is only one folder in a POP server, "$inbox" is the only folder whose name starts with "$".)

‘-’
Newsgroups of NetNews. Example: "-fj.mail.reader.mew"

If you use several servers, there are multiple sets of remote folders. You can specify several servers by using "case". For more information about the "case", see Changing receiving/sending behavior. To specify a remote folder corresponding to a "case", you should write "case:folder". You can omit "case:" if a case is "default".

A combination of "case" and proto organized a world to which a message belongs. A message can move within its world. To make it easy to search received messages afterward, they should be moved to proper folders. To know how to refile received messages, see Happy refiling.

You cannot move a message in the "$" world because there is only one folder, "$inbox". You cannot move a message in the "-" world either since messages in the "-" world are not yours.

If you want to move a message from one world to another, you should COPY it. Its destination is restricted to a local folder. This method is described in Getting messages.

If you make a list of folders, you can use the completion functionality for folders. To know how to make a list of folders, please refer to Updating status.

# 1.5 Configuration

To execute Mew, the followings are necessary either in the site configuration file or in your "~/.emacs".

```lisp
(autoload 'mew "mew" nil t)
(autoload 'mew-send "mew" nil t)

;; Optional setup (Read Mail menu):
(setq read-mail-command 'mew)

;; Optional setup (e.g. C-xm for sending a message):
(autoload 'mew-user-agent-compose "mew" nil t)
(if (boundp 'mail-user-agent)
    (setq mail-user-agent 'mew-user-agent))
(if (fboundp 'define-mail-user-agent)
    (define-mail-user-agent
      'mew-user-agent
      'mew-user-agent-compose
      'mew-draft-send-message
      'mew-draft-kill
      'mew-send-hook))
```

If you are using Emacs with the –unibyte option or the EMACS_UNIBYTE environment variable for Latin-1, put the following into your "~/.emacs".

```lisp
(set-language-environment "Latin-1")
(set-input-method "latin-1-prefix") ;; or "latin-1-postfix"
```

If you use the following configuration for Latin-1, please remove it. This is an obsolete handling of Latin-1 that can cause Mew to function incorrectly.

```lisp
(standard-display-european 1)
```

When booting, Mew reads the file "~/.mew.el". All Mew configurations should be written in this file.

To configure your e-mail address, the followings are necessary.

```lisp
;; (setq mew-name "your name") ;; (user-full-name)
;; (setq mew-user "user name of e-mail address") ;; (user-login-name)
(setq mew-mail-domain "domain of e-mail address")
```

To send e-mail messages by SMTP, the following is necessary.

```lisp
(setq mew-smtp-server "your SMTP server")  ;; if not localhost
```

If you want to use POP to receive e-mail messages, the followings are necessary.

```lisp
;; (setq mew-pop-user "your POP account")  ;; (user-login-name)
(setq mew-pop-server "your POP server")    ;; if not localhost
```

If you want to use a local mailbox to receive e-mail messages, the followings are necessary.

```lisp
;; To use local mailbox "mbox" or "maildir" instead of POP
(setq mew-mailbox-type 'mbox)
(setq mew-mbox-command "incm")
(setq mew-mbox-command-arg "-u -d /path/to/mbox")
;; If /path/to/mbox is a file, it means "mbox".
;; If /path/to/mbox is a directory, it means "maildir".
```
If you want to use IMAP to receive e-mail messages, the followings are necessary.

```lisp
(setq mew-proto "%")
;; (setq mew-imap-user "your IMAP account")  ;; (user-login-name)
(setq mew-imap-server "your IMAP server")    ;; if not localhost
```


To read and/or write articles of NetNews, the followings are necessary.

```lisp
;; (setq mew-nntp-user "your NNTP account")
(setq mew-nntp-server "your NNTP server")
```



# 1.7 Starting

`M-x mew` 打开mew进行邮件的查收

`C-uM-x mew`

Perform ‘M-x mew’ with ‘mew-auto-get’ reversed.

`M-x mew-send`

Enter Draft mode for message composing.
进入草稿箱中,并进行草稿编辑

`C-xm` 与上面一个命令类似，但更高效
Enter Draft mode for message composing if ‘mail-user-agent’ is configured.
